Patient Name: Date of Birth: Patient's Phone: Last 4-digit SSN (optional) Please return completed authorization to: HIM UCLA West Valley Medical Center 7300 Medical Center Dr. West Hills CA, 91307 Address 2: Recipient's Phone: Email: ROIWestValley@mednet.ucla.edu City: State: Zip: In the event the facility is unable to accommodate an electronic delivery as requested, an alternative delivery method will be provided (e.g., paper copy). There is some level of risk that a third party could see your PHI without your consent when receiving unencrypted electronic media or email. We are not responsible for unauthorized access to the PHI contained in this format or any risks (e.g., virus) potentially introduced to your computer/device when receiving PHI in electronic format or email. This authorization will expire on the following: (Fill in the Date or the Event but not both.) Is this request for psychotherapy notes? [ ] No, then you may check as many items below as you need [ ] Yes, then this is the only item you may request on this authorization. You must submit another authorization for other items below ABSTRACT only Medication sheets Labor/delivery summary Operative information OB nursing assess Admission form Special test/therapy Itemized bill: Dictation reports Rhythm strips UB-04: Provider orders Nursing information Other: Intake/outtake Transfer forms Other: Clinical test ED information I acknowledge, and hereby consent to such, that the released information may contain alcohol, drug abuse, genetic information, psychiatric, HIV testing, HIV results, or AIDS information. (Initial): 1. I may refuse to sign this authorization and that it is strictly voluntary. 2. My treatment, payment, enrollment or eligibility for benefits may not be conditioned on signing this authorization. 3. I may revoke this authorization at any time in writing, but if I do, it will not have any effect on any actions taken prior to receiving the revocation. Further details may be found in the Notice of Privacy Practices. 4. If the requester or receiver is not a health plan or health care provider, the released information may no longer be protected by federal privacy regulations and may be redisclosed. 5. I understand that I may see and obtain a copy the information described on this form, for a reasonable copy fee, if I ask for it. 6. I get a copy of this form after I sign it If yes, the health plan or health care provider must complete Section B, otherwise skip to Section C. Will the recipient receive financial remuneration in exchange for using or disclosing this information? YES NO If yes, describe: May recipient of the PHI further exchange the information for financial remuneration? YES NO Section A This section must be completed for all Authorizations I have read the above and authorize the disclosure of the protected health information as stated. Printed Name of Patient or Authorized Representative Relationship Patient Signature or Authorized Representative Date/Time Request Delivery (If left blank, a paper copy will be provided): [ ] Paper Copy [ ] Electronic Media, if available (e.g., USB drive, CD/DVD, eDelivery) NOTE: AUTHORIZATION FOR RELEASE OF PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION (PHI) Email Address (If email checked above. Please print legibly): Form #FSG.FT.PRI.616 v5 (Rev. 09/22) Page 1 of 1 Purpose of disclosure: Description of information to be used or disclosed Description: Date(s): Description: Date(s): Description: Date(s): My entire medical record Section B: Is the request of PHI for the purpose of marketing and/or does it involve the sale of PHI? Yes NO Section C Signatures