As a patient of UCLA Health, you have Be advised if the hospital/licensed health care practitioner acting within the scope of his or her professional licensure the right to: proposes to engage in or perform human experimentation Considerate and respectful care, and to be affecting your care or treatment. You have the right to made comfortable. refuse to participate in such research projects. Have your cultural, psychosocial, spiritual, and personal Reasonable responses to any reasonable requests values, beliefs and preferences respected. made for service. Have a family member (or other representative of your Appropriate assessment and management of your pain, choosing) and your own physician notified promptly information about pain and pain relief measures and of your admission to the hospital. participation in pain management decisions. You may request or reject the use of any or all modalities to relieve Know the name of the licensed health care practitioner pain, including opiate medication, if you suffer from severe acting within the scope of his or her professional licensure chronic intractable pain. The doctor may refuse to prescribe who has primary responsibility for coordinating your care, the opiate medication, but if so, must inform you that there and the names and professional relationships of physicians are physicians who specialize in the treatment of severe and nonphysicians who will see you. chronic pain with methods that include the use of opiates. Receive information about your health status, diagnosis, Formulate advance directives. This includes designating a prognosis, course of treatment, prospects for recovery and decision-maker if you become incapable of understanding outcomes of care (including unanticipated outcomes) in a proposed treatment or become unable to communicate terms you can understand. You have the right to effective your wishes regarding care. Hospital staff and practitioners communication and to participate in the development and who provide care in the hospital shall comply with these implementation of your plan of care. directives. Patients rights apply to the person who has Participate in ethical questions that arise in the course legal responsibility to make decisions regarding medical of your care, including issues of conflict resolution, care on your behalf. withholding resuscitative services, and forgoing or Have personal privacy respected. Case discussion, withdrawing life-sustaining treatment, or to request consultation, examination and treatment are confidential an ETHICS consult by calling or and should be conducted discreetly. You have the right to paging ID# 38442. be told the reason for the presence of any individual. You Make decisions regarding medical care, and receive as have the right to have visitors leave prior to an examination much information about any proposed treatment or and when treatment issues are being discussed. Privacy procedure as you may need in order to give informed curtains will be used in semiprivate rooms. consent or to refuse a course of treatment. Except in Confidential treatment of all communications and records emergencies, this information shall include a description pertaining to your care and stay in the hospital. You will of the procedure or treatment, the medically significant receive a separate Notice of Privacy Practices, which risks involved, alternate courses of treatment or explains your privacy rights in detail and tells how we may nontreatment and the risks involved in each, and the use and disclose your protected health information. name of the person who will carry out the procedure or treatment. Receive care in a safe setting, free from mental, physical, sexual or verbal abuse and neglect, exploitation or Request or refuse treatment, to the extent permitted harassment. You have the right to access protective and by law. However, you do not have the right to demand advocacy services, including notifying government agencies inappropriate or medically unnecessary treatment or of neglect or abuse. services. You have the right to leave the hospital even against the advice of members of the medical staff, to Be free from restraints and seclusion of any form used the extent permitted by law. as a means of coercion, discipline, convenience or retaliation by staff.

Reasonable continuity of care and to the degree feasible Exercise these rights without regard to sex, economic status, to know in advance the time and location of your educational background, race, color, age, religion, ancestry, appointments, as well as the identity of the persons national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity/ providing the care. expression, disability, medical condition, marital status, registered domestic partner status, genetic information, Be informed by the physician, or delegate of the physician, citizenship, primary language, immigration status of continuing health care requirements and options (except as required by federal law) or the source following discharge from the hospital. You have the right of payment for care. to be involved in the development and implementation of your discharge plan. Upon your request, a friend or File a grievance. If you want to file a grievance with family member may be provided this information also. UCLA Health, you may do so in writing, or by calling: Know which hospital rules and policies apply to your Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Office of the conduct while you are a patient. Patient Experience (Inpatient/Ambulatory Care):

Designate a support person as well as visitors of your choosing, if you have decision-making capacity, whether UCLA Medical Center, Santa Monica, Office of the or not the visitor is related by blood, marriage or Patient Experience (Inpatient/Ambulatory Care): registered domestic partner status unless: No visitors are allowed. Stewart and Lynda Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital at UCLA, Patient Relations: The facility reasonably determines that the presence of a particular visitor would endanger the health or The grievance committee will review each grievance and safety of a patient, a member of the health facility provide you with a written response within 30 days. The staff or other visitors to the health facility, or would written response will contain the name of a person to significantly disrupt the operations of the facility. contact at the hospital, the steps taken to investigate the grievance, the results of the grievance process and the date You have told the health facility staff that you no of completion of the grievance process. Concerns regarding longer want a particular person to visit. quality of care or premature discharge will also be referred to However, the health facility may establish reasonable the appropriate Utilization and Quality Control Peer Review restrictions upon visitation, including restrictions upon the Organization (PRO). hours of visitation and number of visitors. The health facility File a complaint with the California Department of must inform you (or your support person, where appropriate) Public Health (CDPH) regardless of whether you use the of your visitation rights, including any clinical restrictions hospital s grievance process, by calling or or limitations. The health facility is not permitted to restrict, Toll Free: , or writing to: CDPH, Health limit or otherwise deny visitation privileges on the basis of Facilities Inspection Division, Los Angeles District Office, race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity, 3400 Aerojet Avenue, Suite 323, El Monte, CA 91731 sexual orientation or disability. You may file a grievance with The Joint Commission (TJC) Have your wishes considered, if you lack decision-making by calling , faxing or emailing: capacity, for the purposes of determining who may visit. patientsafetyreport@jointcommission.org. You can also The method of that consideration will comply with federal write to: Office of Quality and Patient Safety, The Joint law and be disclosed in the hospital policy on visitation. Commission, One Renaissance Boulevard Oakbrook At a minimum, the hospital shall include any persons living in your household and any support person File a grievance regarding the conduct of a physician by pursuant to federal law. calling the Medical Board of California at Examine and receive an explanation of the hospital s bill or , or by fax or writing to: regardless of the source of payment. Medical Board of California, Central Complaint Unit 2005 Evergreen Street, Suite 1200, Sacramento, CA 95815.

As a patient of UCLA Health, you have To keep appointments with your health care provider. If you need to cancel an appointment, you should do so the following responsibilities: at least 24 hours before your appointment time. Health care is a shared responsibility. Engaging in To ensure that your financial obligations for your health discussion, asking questions, seeking information and care are fulfilled by paying bills promptly. Late payments exploring alternatives improves communication and increase overall charges. You are responsible for working understanding of one s health and treatment. with your account representative to make payment To respect the rights and property of other patients and arrangements and for providing the information necessary UCLA Health personnel. Just as you want privacy, a quiet to determine how your hospital bill will be paid. atmosphere and courteous treatment, so do other patients. To follow UCLA Health rules and regulations affecting You have the responsibility to follow the organization s patient care and conduct. rules and regulations, limit your visitors, follow smoking To be considerate of UCLA Health facilities and equipment regulations, and use the telephone, television and lights and to use them in such a manner so as not to abuse them. courteously so that you do not disturb others. To report to your physician, and other health care If you have any questions regarding these Patient professionals caring for you, accurate and complete Responsibilities, please contact: information to the best of your knowledge about present Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Office of the Patient complaints, past illness, hospitalizations, medications, Experience (Inpatient/Ambulatory Care): unexpected changes in condition and other matters UCLA Medical Center, Santa Monica, Office of the Patient relating to your health, as well as to provide a copy of Experience (Inpatient/Ambulatory Care): your advance directive or POLST to be filed in your medical record, if applicable. Stewart and Lynda Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital at UCLA, Patient Relations: To seek information about your health and what you are expected to do. Your health care provider may not know when you re confused or uncertain, or just want more information. If you don t understand the medical words used, ask for a simpler explanation. The most effective plan is the one to which all participants agree and that is carried out exactly. It is your responsibility to tell your health care provider whether or not you can and want to follow the treatment plan recommended for you. To ask your health care provider for information about your health and health care. This includes following the instructions of other health team members, including nurses and physical therapists who are linked to this plan of care. The organization makes every effort to adapt a plan specific to your needs and limitations. To continue your care after you leave UCLA Health, including knowing when and where to get further treatment and what you need to do at home to help with your care. To accept the consequences of your own decisions and actions, if you choose to refuse treatment or not to comply with the care, treatment and service plan offered by your health care provider.