This is the organization's application for Charity Care or Discount Payment financial assistance. To be considered, please complete this application to help the organization determine whether you may qualify to receive Charity Care (free care) or a Discount Payment (reduced but not free care). Even if you apply, the organization cannot guarantee that you will qualify. A written response will be provided to all patients supporting approval or denial after the organization receives your completed application and documentation.

The Policy covers medically necessary care provided at The hospital and affiliated facilities as well as by faculty physicians in their capacity as faculty and physicians including those employed by medical groups that have a professional services agreement with them, and emergency physicians. Patients scheduled as elective inpatients, non-emergent outpatients, or for follow-up care following discharge require prior approval for financial assistance by the Vice President, Finance and Chief Revenue Cycle Officer or their designee. Only medically necessary procedures are eligible for approval.

You may submit the completed, signed and dated application by mail or email. A completed application must include the date and signature of the applicant. There are no required deadlines for applying. In addition to the application, provide proof of income documentation for both patient and spouse or partner if married, in a civil union or a domestic partnership. This documentation will be either pay stubs (the two most recent) or federal tax return (prior year). Missing or unattached documents may cause a delay or denial of financial assistance.

If you are uninsured and meet specific Medicaid presumptive eligibility criteria, you are not required to complete this application. A patient shall, as a condition of Charity Care, apply for coverage under Medicaid and other applicable programs as appropriate. Before receiving a Discount Payment, the organization may request that the patient be screened for Medicaid eligibility so that the patient receives information on benefits. However, Medicaid enrollment will not be required to receive a Discount Payment.

The applicant certifies that the information in this application is true and correct to the best of their knowledge. The applicant agrees to apply for any local, state and federal assistance for which they may be eligible to help alleviate the cost of any hospital and professional bills. The applicant understands that the information provided may be verified by the organization and authorizes them to contact third parties to verify the accuracy of the information provided in this application. If an applicant knowingly provided incorrect information or if the application contains a material error or omission, the applicant will no longer be eligible for financial assistance. If financial assistance was previously granted, it may be reversed and the applicant will be held responsible for the outstanding balance.
