NOTICE OF PRIVACY PRACTICES FOR MAYO CLINIC ARIZONA THIS NOTICE DESCRIBES HOW MEDICAL INFORMATION ABOUT YOU MAY BE USED AND DISCLOSED AND HOW YOU CAN GET ACCESS TO THIS INFORMATION. PLEASE REVIEW IT CAREFULLY. This notice applies to Mayo Clinic Arizona and its health care practice sites in Arizona (collectively referenced as Mayo Clinic ). These practice sites include Mayo Clinic in Scottsdale, Mayo Clinic Hospital, and the Mayo Clinic Primary Care sites. Mayo Clinic s Duties Part I - Most Common Uses and Disclosures By law, Mayo Clinic must keep protected health information private. The federal government defines protected health This section describes the most common circumstances in information as any information, whether oral, electronic or which Mayo Clinic may use or disclose protected health paper, which is created or received by Mayo Clinic and relates information. to a patient s health care or payment for the provision of Treatment medical services. This includes not only the results of tests Mayo Clinic will use and disclose protected health and notes written by doctors, nurses and other clinical information to provide, coordinate or manage your care. This personnel, but also certain demographic information (such as includes communication and consultation between health care your name, address and telephone number) that is related to providers doctors, nurses, technicians and other members of your health records. your medical team. This applies to disclosures for treatment purposes to health care providers both within and outside of Mayo Clinic is required by law to give you this notice and to Mayo Clinic. For example, following orthopedic surgery, your follow the terms and conditions of the notice that is currently doctor may refer you for rehabilitation. Information will be in effect. shared between caregivers to ensure continuity of care. How Mayo Clinic Fulfills These Duties (cid:1) Mayo Clinic considers patient privacy as part of its Mayo Clinic will use and disclose protected health information to create bills and collect payment from insurance mission to serve the needs of the patient first. companies, Medicare and other payers. This may include (cid:1) Mayo Clinic takes necessary precautions against providing information such as dates of service, symptoms and inappropriate use or disclosure of medical information. diagnosis to your insurance company to show that Mayo (cid:1) Mayo Clinic employees are expected to access medical Clinic provided medical services to you. Mayo Clinic also information only as necessary to perform their jobs. may disclose protected health information to another health (cid:1) Mayo Clinic employees who violate these rules and care provider if such information is needed by the other health policies are subject to sanctions, including discipline and care provider to obtain payment for medical services provided termination. to you. Health Care Operations The Health Care Providers Covered By This Notice Mayo Clinic will use and disclose protected health This notice covers Mayo Clinic and Mayo Clinic personnel, information if it is necessary to improve the quality of care we volunteers, students, and trainees. The notice also covers provide to patients or to run our health care facilities. These other health care providers that come to Mayo Clinic s include activities to monitor and improve patient care, license facilities to care for patients (such as physicians, physician staff to care for patients, prepare for state and federal assistants, therapists, and other health care providers not regulatory reviews, train health care and non-health care employed by Mayo Clinic), unless these other health care professionals, manage health care operations and improve providers give you their own notice of privacy practices that health care services. Here are some examples: describes how they will protect your medical information. (cid:1) To reduce the infection rate after a surgery, it would be Mayo Clinic may share your medical information with these necessary to look at medical records to determine the rate other health care providers for their treatment, payment and of infections that occurred. health care operations. This arrangement is only for sharing (cid:1) To be licensed to do a certain procedure, a doctor may be information and not for any other purpose. required to show that he or she has successfully completed a number of procedures under the supervision of another physician. A Word About Federal and State Law (cid:1) A Federal Drug Administration inspector may review Federal and state laws require Mayo Clinic to protect your patient records in a laboratory to ensure that accurate and medical information and federal law requires Mayo Clinic to complete records are maintained for patient safety. describe to you how we handle that information. When federal and state privacy laws differ, and Arizona law is more Mayo Clinic also may disclose protected health information to protective of your information or provides you with greater another health care provider who has treated you, or to your access to your information, then state law will override insurance company, if such information is needed for certain federal law. health care operations of the health care provider or insurance company, such as quality improvement activities, evaluations of health care professionals, and state and federal regulatory

Patient Contacts Part II - Other Potential Uses and Disclosures At times, Mayo Clinic may access information, such as your name, address and general medical condition to contact you This section describes the less common circumstances in which to: (cid:1) set up or remind you about future appointments; Mayo Clinic may use or disclose protected health information. (cid:1) provide information about treatment alternatives or other To Avert a Serious Threat of Harm information that may be of interest to you; or (cid:1) disclose health-related benefits or services that may be of Mayo Clinic may use and disclose protected health information to alert those able to prevent or lessen a serious interest to you. and immediate threat to the health or safety of a patient, Philanthropy another person or the public. Mayo Clinic may contact you to raise funds to sustain the Mayo Clinic mission. For example, you may receive letters or Organ and Tissue Donation other publications asking you to consider making a tax- If Mayo Clinic professionals determine that a patient might be deductible contribution to Mayo Clinic. When conducting a candidate for organ or tissue donation, Mayo Clinic may fundraising activities, Mayo Clinic may access only your basic release protected health information to organizations that demographic information (such as name and address) and the handle organ procurement, or organ, eye, tissue donation dates that you were treated at Mayo Clinic. Mayo Clinic does banks, or other health care organizations as needed to make not engage in telephone solicitations, nor does Mayo Clinic organ or tissue donation and transplantation possible. sell or rent patients names or addresses to any organization outside the Mayo Foundation. Military Personnel If a patient is a member of the United States Armed Forces, Facility Directory/Patient Census Mayo Clinic may release protected health information as Mayo Clinic may include your name, location in our facility, required by military authorities. Mayo Clinic also may release health condition (in general terms, such as good, fair ) protected health information about foreign military personnel and religious affiliation (should you choose to provide one) in to the appropriate foreign military authority. When the current patient lists for our facilities. This information is military organization is sponsoring the medical evaluation, maintained for Mayo Clinic personnel to assist family the patient s medical information is shared with both the members and other visitors or persons in locating you while patient and the sponsoring organization. Patients being you are in Mayo Clinic s facilities. For example, a relative evaluated on behalf of the military should be aware of these may wish to visit you in the hospital and would need to know arrangements. your hospital room number. A family member meeting you for an appointment may have forgotten which floor your Workers Compensation appointment is on. This information is only shared with If a patient is seen for a workers compensation claim, federal members of the clergy, or those asking about you by name, rules permit the release of protected health information and only clergy members will receive information about your related to the claim, as permitted or required by state law. religious affiliation. You can choose not to have such Arizona law permits the release of protected health information released from the facility directory/patient information related to a workers compensation claim to the census. If you do not want Mayo Clinic to release such information, please inform the person assisting you during Industrial Commission of Arizona, a patient s employer, or registration and/or admission and request to sign an opt-out the employer s legal representative. form. Public Health Purposes Individuals Involved in Care and Notification Mayo Clinic may disclose protected health information for Under federal regulations, Mayo Clinic may disclose relevant public health purposes. The following are some examples of protected health information to a family member or friend releases that are allowed for public health purposes: involved with your care or handling your bills. If family or (cid:1) to report vital statistics (e.g., births, deaths); friends are present while care is being provided, Mayo Clinic (cid:1) to report to the federal government adverse reactions to will assume your companions may hear the discussion, unless medication or safety problems with FDA-regulated you state otherwise. Additionally, federal regulations allow products; Mayo Clinic to disclose relevant protected health information (cid:1) to notify people of product recalls; and to a public or private entity authorized by law or its charter to (cid:1) to report communicable diseases to local, county, state, assist in disaster relief efforts in order to inform family and federal health officials. members or other persons of your location or condition. Health Oversight Activities Medical Research Mayo Clinic may disclose protected health information to Medical research is vital to the advancement of medical health oversight agencies that oversee our operations or science. Federal regulations permit use of protected health personnel. For example, Mayo Clinic may need to disclose information in medical research, either with your protected health information to the Arizona Department of authorization or when the research study at Mayo Clinic is Health Services, the Arizona Medical Board, the Arizona reviewed and approved by an Institutional Review Board Board of Nursing, or the federal agencies that oversee before any medical research study begins. In some situations, Medicare. These agencies need such information to monitor limited information may be used before approval of the our compliance with state and federal laws. research study to allow a researcher to determine whether enough patients exist to make a study scientifically valid.

Lawsuits and Other Judicial Proceedings Uses and Disclosures Pursuant to an Authorization Mayo Clinic may disclose protected health information in Except as described in this notice or specifically required or response to a court or administrative order. Mayo Clinic also permitted by law, Mayo Clinic will not use or disclose your may disclose protected health information in response to protected health information without your specific written certain types of subpoenas, discovery requests or other lawful authorization. At times, Mayo Clinic may ask you to provide process. Arizona law provides that protected health specific written permission to allow Mayo Clinic to use or information may be disclosed in a civil or criminal action disclose medical information about you. A valid upon the issuance of a subpoena from a court of competent authorization may be revoked in writing at any time. Written jurisdiction and proper notice by the party seeking such revocation of authorization must be submitted to the Mayo records to the patient or his or her legal representative. Clinic Medical Records Department. Once authorization is revoked, Mayo Clinic will no longer be allowed to use or Law Enforcement Activities disclose protected health information for the purposes Mayo Clinic may disclose protected health information to law described in the authorization except to the extent Mayo enforcement officials. For example, we may release protected Clinic has already taken action based upon the authorization. health information to law enforcement officials: (cid:1) in response to a court order, grand jury subpoena, or Part III - Patients Rights with Respect to search warrant; Protected Health Information (cid:1) to identify a suspect, fugitive or missing person; (cid:1) about the victim of a crime under certain limited This section describes the rights of Mayo Clinic patients to circumstances; (cid:1) about a death believed to be a result of criminal conduct; protected health information. (cid:1) about a crime committed on Mayo Clinic premises. Right to Inspect and Copy You have the right to inspect and to request a copy of information maintained in Mayo Clinic s designated medical Coroners, Medical Examiners and Funeral Directors record about you. This includes medical and billing records Mayo Clinic may release protected health information to a maintained and used by Mayo Clinic to make decisions about coroner or medical examiner when necessary to identify the your care. deceased, determine the cause of death or as otherwise authorized by law. Mayo Clinic also may release protected To obtain or inspect a copy of your medical information, health information to a funeral director as necessary to carry submit a written request to the Mayo Clinic Medical Records out the funeral director s duties, including arrangements after Department. If the information is needed for treatment purposes, no fee will be charged. If the information is for other purposes, a reasonable, cost-based fee may be charged National Security Activities to cover the expense of providing copies. Mayo Clinic may release protected health information to authorized federal officials for intelligence, Most patients have full access to inspect and receive a copy of counterintelligence or other national security activities the full medical record. On rare occasions, Mayo Clinic may authorized by law. Mayo Clinic also may disclose protected deny a request to inspect and receive a copy of some health information to authorized federal officials so they may information in the medical record. This may occur if, in the provide protection to the President or other authorized professional judgment of a patient s physician or psychologist, individuals. the release of the information is not in the patient s best interest due to the treatment of the patient for a mental Required by Law disorder, and that the release of this information would be Mayo Clinic will use or disclose protected health information reasonably likely to endanger the life or physical safety of the when required by federal, state, or local laws. For example, patient or another person, or to cause substantial harm to such Mayo Clinic is required to report abuse or neglect of a child or other person. There is also a similar exception for a patient s vulnerable adult, and gunshot wounds or other injuries that raw test data and psychometric testing materials and an may have resulted from a fight, brawl, robbery, or illegal or exception for psychotherapy notes. Right to Request Alternate Methods of Communication Information with Additional Protections You have a right to request that Mayo Clinic communicate Certain types of protected health information have additional with you in certain ways (such as a letter or by phone) or at a protection under federal or Arizona law. For example, certain location. For example, you may ask that we contact protected health information about communicable disease and you only at home or only at your place of business. In this HIV/AIDS, genetic testing, and evaluation and treatment for situation, you may submit a written request to the Mayo a serious mental illness is treated differently than other types Clinic Medical Records Department specifying the of protected health information. For those types of communication method or alternative location being information, Mayo Clinic is required to get your written requested. Mayo Clinic will accommodate reasonable permission before disclosing that information to others in requests. However, if the request could result in Mayo Clinic many circumstances. not being able to collect for services, Mayo Clinic reserves the right to require you to provide additional information about how payment for services will be handled.

Right to Request Amendment Right to Request Restrictions You have the right to request that your protected health You can ask Mayo Clinic to restrict the use or disclosure of information in Mayo Clinic s designated medical record for protected health information about you for treatment, you be amended. If you wish to request amendment of the payment or health care operations. Your request must be in information in your record, submit a written request to the writing and submitted to the Mayo Clinic Medical Records Mayo Clinic Medical Records Department. The request must Department. Mayo Clinic will carefully consider all requests. include a reason to support the amendment. Mayo Clinic may However, because of the integrated nature of Mayo Clinic s deny a request for amendment based upon any of the medical record, Mayo Clinic is not generally able to honor following circumstances: most requests, nor is Mayo Clinic legally required to do so. (cid:1) the request is not in writing or does not include a supporting reason; Complaints (cid:1) the information you want to change was not created by If you want to file a complaint or express concerns about Mayo Mayo Clinic, and the originator of the information is Clinic s use or disclosure of protected health information, available to make the amendment; please contact the Patient Administrative Liaison Office at (cid:1) the information is not part of the designated medical Mayo Clinic at 13400 East Shea Boulevard, Scottsdale, Arizona 85259, or at . You also may file a written com- record; or (cid:1) the information in the record is accurate and complete. plaint with the United States Department of Health and Human Services Office of Civil Rights. If Mayo Clinic denies your request for an amendment, Mayo Mayo Clinic honors your right to express concerns regarding Clinic will give you a written explanation of the denial. If you your privacy. Mayo Clinic would not - nor could it legally or still disagree with the explanation provided, you can submit ethically - take action against you for filing a concern or your written disagreement to the Mayo Clinic Medical complaint regarding the use or disclosure of your health Records Department, or you can ask that your request for information. Mayo Clinic reserves the right, however, to take amendment and explanation of the denial be included in any necessary and appropriate action to maintain an environment future disclosure of the pertinent protected health that serves the best interests of its patients and providers. information. If you submit a statement of disagreement, Mayo Clinic may include a rebuttal statement addressing your Key Information About this Notice statement of disagreement in the designated medical record. (cid:1) The effective date of this notice is April 14, 2003. (cid:1) Additional paper copies of this notice will be provided upon Right to a List of Certain Disclosures request. You can ask Mayo Clinic for a list of the persons or (cid:1) From time to time, Mayo Clinic may change its practices organizations to which Mayo Clinic has disclosed your concerning how we use or disclose protected health protected health information. This list would provide you information, or how we will implement patient rights with a summary of certain disclosures Mayo Clinic has made concerning their information. Mayo Clinic reserves the that you would not otherwise be in a position to know about. right to change the terms of this notice and make the new The following are examples of disclosures that would not be notice provisions effective for all protected health included in the list: information maintained by Mayo Clinic. Mayo Clinic will (cid:1) disclosures to carry out treatment, payment and health care follow the terms and conditions of the notice that is operations; currently in effect. (cid:1) disclosures made directly to you (the patient) or (cid:1) When the notice is revised, it will be available upon request disclosures that you have specifically authorized; at Mayo Clinic facilities, on our website at http:// (cid:1) disclosures made from the facility directory/patient www.mayoclinic.org/scottsdale/, or by mail. It will also be census; posted at our facilities. (cid:1) disclosures to persons involved in your care; (cid:1) disclosures incident to a use or disclosure that is otherwise Need More Information? permitted or required by law; If you have any questions, or would like to discuss this in (cid:1) disclosures made for national security or intelligence more detail, please contact Mayo Clinic s privacy officer at purposes; . More information also is available at Mayo (cid:1) disclosures made to correctional institutions or law Clinic s web site at http://www.mayoclinic.org/scottsdale/. enforcement officials having custody over a patient; or (cid:1) disclosures that took place before April 14, 2003. To get a copy of the list, submit a written request to the Mayo Clinic Medical Records Department. Your request must state a time period (beginning no earlier than April 14, 2003 when the federal privacy rules go into effect and for no longer than six years). The first list requested within a 12-month period shall be provided at no charge. For additional lists requested during the same 12-month period, Mayo Clinic may charge for the costs of providing the list.

Dear Mayo Clinic Patient, In our Notice of Privacy Practices, we explained that we may disclose your health information to a family member or friend who is involved with your care or who is handling your bills. We find that many patients want us to discuss their care with their family members or friends to keep your loved ones up-to-date on your care, to help you understand your care, to help in handling your bills, or to help in the scheduling of your appointments. You have the right to tell us not to discuss such information with your family members or friends. If you do not want the staff of Mayo Clinic to discuss such information with your family members or friends, please inform the person assisting you during registration and/or admission and request to sign the Disclosure Opt-Out form (MCS 7596). Once the form has been signed, Mayo staff will not be able to answer any questions from family or friends (e.g., regarding appointments, care, billing issues). Additionally, Mayo staff will not be able to acknowledge your presence in our facilities, if family or friends are trying to locate you.