For audio, select View in the PDF toolbar, then select Read out Loud and then select Activate Read CEDARS-SINAI SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AND SURPRISE BILLING PROTECTIONS As part of our mission, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Cedars-Sinai Marina Hospital, Cedars-Sinai Medical Care Foundation ( CSMCF ), Huntington Hospital, and Huntington Health Physicians (each separately, the Organization ) are committed to providing access to quality healthcare for the community and treating all of our patients with dignity, compassion and respect. This includes providing services without charge, or at significantly discounted prices, to eligible patients who cannot afford to pay for care as provided by our financial assistance policy (the Policy ). We also offer our patients a variety of payment plans and options to meet their financial needs, even if they do not qualify for assistance. This document is our plain language summary (the Summary ) of the Policy. Help Paying Your Bill Charity Care will be made available to patients receiving medically necessary procedures and whose income is at or below 400% of the current year s federal poverty level (FPL). Patients whose income ranges between 401% 600% of the FPL also qualify for a Discount Payment, using a sliding scale based on family size, income level and insurance status. Patients scheduled as elective inpatients, scheduled as non-emergent outpatients or for follow-up care following discharge require prior approval by the vice president, Finance and Chief Revenue Cycle Officer or their designee. If a patient does not qualify for entirely free services but is eligible for a discount under the Policy, the patient will not be charged more than amounts generally billed by the Organization for emergency or other medically necessary care. Physicians and services The Policy only applies to services provided by the Organization and by: faculty physicians in their capacity as faculty, CSMCF and Huntington Health physicians including physicians employed by medical groups that have a professional services agreement with them, and the Cedars-Sinai emergency physicians. Emergency physicians at Organization hospitals other than Cedars-Sinai who provide emergency medical services are required by law to provide discounts to uninsured patients or patients with high medical costs who are at or below 400 percent of the federal poverty level. How to Apply Patients seeking free or discounted care under the Policy will need to complete a financial assistance application (the Application ) and submit any required documentation. The Application and documentation will go through a review process by the Organization. Free copies of this Summary, the Policy or the Application are available in English, Spanish, Farsi, Russian, Armenian, Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese, Arabic, or Czech. To request copies or to get additional information, including questions on the financial assistance process, you may: Ask representatives at the registration or admissions desks.

Call Patient Services at . Visit the Organization s website at cedars-sinai.org/billing-insurance/help-paying-your-bill.html. If you have a disability and need an accessible alternative format for the above materials or if you speak another language than those listed, please contact Patient Services and they can offer you an alternative format or connect you with our Interpreter Services department for further assistance. Arrangements for self-pay Patients who do not qualify for free or discounted care under the Policy may find other programs of the Organization helpful. Patients who lack insurance may receive a substantial discount, similar to the discounts we provide to managed-care insurance plans for eligible services. Regulatory notice for collections We do refer some delinquent accounts to third-party collection agencies. These agencies must follow all California and federal laws as well as comply with the Organization s policies and procedures. For more information about debt collection activities, you may contact the Federal Trade Commission by phone at 877-FTC-HELP ). In the event your account is referred to a collection agency and you experience problems, contact our Patient Services for support at . Protections for surprise medical bills All patients are afforded protections against surprise medical bills. Please see the Notice to Patients Your Rights and Protections Against Surprise Medical Bills on our website or ask for a copy. Cedars-Sinai: cedars-sinai.org/patients-visitors/resources/patient-rights.html Huntington Health: huntingtonhealth.org/patients/cost-of-care/no-surprises- act-nsa-surprise-medical-bills-no-surprise-billing-policies Hospital Bill Complaint Program If you believe you were wrongly denied financial assistance, you may file a complaint with the State of California s Hospital Bill Complaint Program. Go to HospitalBillComplaintProgram.hcai.ca.gov for more information and to file a complaint. More Help Help paying your bill There are free consumer advocacy organizations that will help you understand the billing and payment process. You may call the Health Consumer Alliance at or go to healthconsumer.org for more information. Additional resources and information: Patients may be eligible for government assistance programs, such as Medi-Cal or subsidized coverage through Covered California. The Patient Financial Advocate ( PFA ) office has onsite staff to answer patient questions and provide assistance with applying for these programs. The PFA office can be contacted at . For questions regarding commercial health insurance, call 1-800-CEDARS-1 or . For information on the Organization s pricing and tool for shoppable services, visit the website mycslink.cedars-sinai.org/mycslink/GuestEstimates. TAB 11 (CONSENTS) 11566-A (1124)